TASK ONE

As internet users digital footprints spread to include social networks, financial data, and cloud stored data, a single acccount, an email address of 
often serves as the foundationa for the security of their complete identity. the disclosure of a victim's email password or recuperation questions 
undermines this foundation of credibility. Once compromised, a hijacker can change a victim's passwords for various services as an entry hijacking,
download all of the victim's sensitive information, remotely erase the user's information and backups, or imitate the target to send spam or worse.
(Thomas et al.,2017) 

1. Phishing and scams
Realising that a person's email is active allows cybercriminals to target them with more persuasive emails. They may even use previously breached credentials
in the mail to intimadate their victims.
2. Identity theft and Impersonation
This happens when hackers combine an individual's email with other disclosed private information, such as phone numbers, Identity details, or addresses
from earlier breaches, they can spoof them or register for services in their names.
3. Ransomware
When this happen, users files or date are encrypted and held for ransom via malware.
4. Click fraud
Bots are employed to click on online advertisements to deceive the advertisers.
5. Unauthorised Cryptocurrency mining
When this happens computers become infected with malware for mining cryptocurrencies.Webpages can potentially be attacked with software that utilises
visitors computers to mine.
6. Denial of service (DoS)
This happens when server bandwidth is used to slow or paralise a system via the network. While this can happen genuinely when a site is overloaded with traffic 
after being connected to by a bigger audience, it can also be purposefully created through a variety of methods. A distributed DoS attack occurs when numerous 
linked online devices overwhelm a target website with traffic. DDoS assaults are especially harmful because they may bombard the target with a large volume of 
traffic from multiple sources, rendering them difficult to mitigate.

(Stringhini, 2021,pp.229-232) 

7. Man-in-the-middle attack
This occurs when a communication or data transmission is intercepted. It eneables an attacker to gain access to sensitive data or install malware.

ACTIONS TO TAKE

a) Always take caution for phising and frauds. 
 One need to be wary of emails or texts urging one to "reset" or referencing previously exposed credentials.
 One also need to constantly go straight to the website instead of clicking on links. 
b) Encrypt electronic devices fully
   Software, browsers and antivirus needs to be kept up-to-date  
   Never save crucial passwords in plain text.


References:

Data Guard (2025) How to prevent data breaches?: [online] Available at: https://www.dataguard.com/blog/how-to-prevent-data-breaches/[Accessed 09 September 2025], 
Fortinet (2025) Man-in-the-Middle Attack: Types And Examples. [online] Available at: https://www.fortinet.com/resources/cyberglossary/man-in-the-middle-attack [Accessed 09 September 2025]
Stringhini,G(2021) Adversarial behaviours In A.Rashid, H.Chivers,E.Lupu,A. Martin,.& S.Schneider(Eds), The cyber security body of knowledge
(1.1.0,pp.223-250).The national cyber security centre. http://www.cybok.org/media/downloads/CyBOK_v1.1.0pdf
Thomas, K., Li, F., Zand, A., Barrett, J., Ranieri, J., Invernizzi, L., Markov, Y., Comanescu, O., Eranti, V., Moscicki, A., Margolis, D., Paxson, V. & Bursztein, E., 2017. 
Data Breaches, Phishing, or Malware? Understanding the Risks of Stolen Credentials. In: Proceedings of the SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS 2017), 
Dallas, TX, 30 Oct–3 Nov. ACM, pp. 1421–1434. DOI: 10.1145/3133956.3134067.

